== Introduction

This book was created to document the plugins and features available
in the Takari Distribution including Maven (TDM).

=== What is TDM?

TDM stands for the Takari Distribution including Maven, and this book
refers to the tool using this acronym.  TDM is a collection of
supported Maven plugins and extensions to core Maven that is made
freely available by Takari. Takari is regularly released, with
releases every 30-60 days depending on the current development
schedule

Takari created TDM to address several shortcomings in the "stock"
Maven distribution and TDM includes the following features beyond that
of Maven:

TODO

==== Video Overview: What is TDM? 

TODO


==== TDM: Advanced Use Cases for Maven

While TDM's features are relevant to all Maven users, the feature were
designed to support development at scale on projects with hundreds or
thousands of developers.  These, advanced builds are often
characterized by large networks of interdependent groups building and
delivering a constant stream of software to production.

Again, TDM can be used by any Maven user, but TDM was specifically
designed for the needs of large software projects. One thing that you
will not find in the TDM distribution is training material aimed at
first-time Maven users. While Takari will go out of our way to ensure
that TDM is well documented, we encourage new Maven users to look
elsewhere for introductory material.  The Maven project's web site is
a good starting point: http://maven.apache.org

=== What is Takari?

Takari is a company founded by Jason van Zyl focused on creating
software to manage component-based development and to support builds
at scale.

Takari's developers bring multiple decades of experience building
software systems, creating and documenting large open source projects
including Maven among others.

Discuss that Takari is focused on the largest builds powering the
largest companies working on the largest project.

==== Video Overview: What is Takari? (2 minutes)

TODO

==== Sustainable Open Source Development

Takari is committed to practicing sustainable open source development
and building a community that understands exactly how open source
developers and community members must be active participants to ensure
the ongoing health of an open source project.

=== Evolving Challenges: Builds at Scale

Takari's efforts related to TDM are influenced by the following trends:

==== Changing Technology: Changing Conventions

What worked 10 years ago may not be appropriate for todayâ€™s builds,
but the core concepts are still valid. Convention over configuration
is even more appropriate now than it was then given the amount of
variation introduced by polyglot development.

TDM addresses several shift in convention. More importantly, TDM
updates the concept of SNAPSHOTS for complex projects and replaces
that with generations. This is an approach to tracking software
releases and related specific point-in-time releases to a commit or
branch in distributed version control.

Over time TDM will release updates to the core APIs and models of
Maven which allow an easier integration with different languages,
tools, and technology.  It is Takari's goal to make sure that TDM's
regular releases can fill in the gaps between Maven far less frequent
releases so that changes in technology can be quickly addressed by
TDM.

==== Faster Lifecycles: More Frequent Releases

When Maven was created we were aiming at project that needed to
conduct a weekly or monthly software release for relatively
well-defined project. When Maven was still new, the industry didn't
have projects beyond a certain level of complex because the easy,
component-based approach to development in Java hadn't yet been
enabled by Maven. Projects were more limited in scope then they are
today. In addition to differences in scope, projects weren't nearly as
complex and interdependent as projects Takari supports in the field in
2014.

Today, we see large organizations with hundreds or thousands of
developers. These organizations are building very complex,
interdependent systems which depend upon Maven to facilitate both
continuous integration and software releases. Where a company may only
push to product once a month in 2004, that same company expects to be
able to push to production as often as possible even multiple times a
day. This is the emerging reality of enterprise software development
and Maven's legacy approach to Releases and SNAPSHOTs does not lend
itself to these, more frequent workflows.

TDM's generations features as well as incremental and parallel builds
are aimed squarely at created more timely and efficient builds for
organizations that are looking to push to production frequently.

